---
title: "Assignment 1"
categories:
  - Blog
tags:
  - chat
  - Post Formats
---

# Part 1
I found the Harvard Art Museum website easy to use and explore. Each art piece in their collection has its own pag to showcase and store its information. These pages take a minimalistic approach, with its black & white color scheme and uniform navigation. The website begins with the piece’s name and image, and is then followed by numerous titbits of information regarding the piece. This description includes, but is not limited to, its “identification and creation”, “physical description”, “acquisition and right”, “provenence” and “public history”. The website displays the details of individual pieces in an easily digestible manner.
However, there are limitations to what can be gleaned solely from the interface. Researchers and scholars may require access to raw data for more in-depth analysis and research. A CSV file provides structured data that can be imported into analytical tools or programming languages for statistical analysis, data visualization, and computational research. Further, the spreadsheet format of a CSV file allows users to perform custom queries and filters on the data to extract specific subsets of artworks-based combinations of attributes, which is not nearly possible to the same extent on the HAM website. Museums also constantly change their catalogue of art pieces, but the accurate data logging of their inventory is paramount. Updating such details is much simpler and quicker in a csv file, where documentation is standard, rather than websites which are often specialised for the piece it is housing.
In conclusion, while museum websites is great in providing access to collections information for the public, a CSV file is better suited towards data analysis, interoperability, and data preservation. By making structured data available in standard formats, museums can help researchers, scholars, and developers to explore, analyze, and interpret collections data in meaningful ways.
